# Predict Bike Sharing Demand with AutoGluon

## Introduction to AWS Machine Learning Final Project
This project aims to leverage AutoGluon, an open-source AutoML library from AWS, to predict bike-sharing demand. The primary goal is to utilize AutoGluon’s 'Tabular Prediction' feature to build accurate baseline models with minimal manual effort. This approach helps streamline the process by reducing the need for extensive data preprocessing, feature engineering, hyperparameter tuning, and model selection.

## Problem Overview:
Bicycle-sharing systems provide an efficient and automated way for individuals to rent bicycles from designated kiosks located across urban areas. These programs allow users to pick up a bike from one station and drop it off at another based on their convenience. Currently, more than 500 such programs operate worldwide.

The large volume of data generated by these systems offers a valuable resource for research, as it includes detailed records of trip durations, start and end locations, and time stamps. This data essentially turns bike-sharing networks into real-time mobility sensors, offering insights into urban transportation trends. The Bike Sharing Demand Competition on Kaggle challenges participants to analyze historical usage patterns and weather data to forecast bike rental demand for Washington D.C.'s Capital Bikeshare program.



## Dataset:
[Bike-Sharing-Demand-Kaggle-Competition-Dataset-Link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/bike-sharing-demand/data)

## Approach:
1. An initial model was trained using AutoGluon's Tabular Prediction with manually configured settings, and its predictions were submitted to Kaggle to establish a baseline ranking.
2. A comprehensive exploratory data analysis (EDA) was conducted to examine the dataset and assess the impact of different features on model performance. Based on these insights, feature engineering techniques were applied to enhance predictive accuracy.
3. A new model was trained using the feature-engineered dataset, incorporating the refined features to improve performance.
4. Further optimization was performed by applying hyperparameter tuning, allowing for better model adjustments and enhanced accuracy. Multiple iterations were carried out to fine-tune the model and achieve the best possible results.

## Getting Started (Resources)
* Clone this template repository `git clone git@github.com:udacity/nd009t-c1-intro-to-ml-project-starter.git` into AWS Sagemaker Studio (or local development).

* Visit the [Kaggle Bike Sharing Demand Competition](https://www.kaggle.com/c/bike-sharing-demand) page. There you will see the overall details about the competition including overview, data, code, discussion, leaderboard, and rules. You will primarily be focused on the data and ranking sections.

### Dependencies

```
Python 3.7
pydantic 1.10.3
MXNet 1.8
Pandas >= 1.2.4
AutoGluon 0.2.0 
```

### Installation
For this project, it is highly recommended to use Sagemaker Studio from the course provided AWS workspace. This will simplify much of the installation needed to get started.

For local development, you will need to setup a jupyter lab instance.
* Follow the [jupyter install](https://jupyter.org/install.html) link for best practices to install and start a jupyter lab instance.
* If you have a python virtual environment already installed you can just `pip` install it.
```
pip install jupyterlab
```
* There are also docker containers containing jupyter lab from [Jupyter Docker Stacks](https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).
